Hey, YouTube. Hey, Jeroen.
Hey, Michael.
Hey, fantastic to have you here.
Thanks, everybody, for watching live.
If you've got comments, thoughts, feedback,
throw them into the live chat,
and we'll try to make them part of the show.
With that, let's kick it off.
Jeroen, welcome to Talk Python to Me.
Hey, thank you. I'm very happy to be here.
Yeah, I'm really happy to have you here.
I saw your book and the title was Data Science at the Command Line.
I thought, okay, that's different.
You know, there's a lot of people that talk about data science tools
and JupyterLab's amazing.
And like, if you look over the fence, like RStudio and those kinds of things.
And yet, so much of what we can kind of do and orchestrate
and create as a building block happens in the terminal.
And bringing some of these data science ideas
and some of these concepts from the terminal to support data scientists, I think is a really
cool idea.
So we're going to have a great time talking about it.
Yeah, yeah.
I love to talk about this.
And yeah, you're right.
I still find it an interesting juxtaposition of these two terms, data science and the command
line.
One being, well, nowadays, let's say 10 years old, at least the term is, and the other one,
the command line is over 50 years old.
- Yeah, the command line is, it's ancient
in computer terms, right?
It's one of the absolute very first ways
of interacting with computers.
I mean, you've got cards where you programmed on paper
and then you had the shell, right after that.
- Before there were any screens.
- Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, when computers were green, they were all green.
It was amazing.
Okay, so I'm looking forward to diving into that
and it's gonna be a lot of fun.
And I just wanna also put out there for people who are like,
but I'm not a data scientist, so should I check out?
I actually think there's a ton of cool ideas in there
just for people who do all sorts of Python
and other types of programming.
It's not just data scientists, right?
- No, absolutely.
And I mean, I don't really care much for titles,
but even when you're an engineer or a developer,
you would be surprised if you really think about
how much data you actually work with.
I mean, just log files on a server,
that's data too.
So there are still a lot of opportunities
to use the command line,
even if you don't consider yourself
to be a data scientist per se.
- Yeah, I totally agree.
All right, let's start with your story.
How'd you get into programming and data science and Python?
I know you do Python and R and some other things.
So how'd you get into programming?
- Yeah, it actually started when I was about 12 years old.
We got this old computer.
It was already old by then, the 286.
And I opened up this program
and I wanted to write a story.
And I was just typing, I was journaling,
and then I got all these error messages.
Turns out the program that I had opened was QBasic,
and it didn't really like what I had to say.
And then I started reading the help,
and then I realized like,
"Hey, I can make this computer do things.
It just needs a particular language."
And that's really how I got into programming.
Yeah, and then of course,
there's a whole range of programming languages
that then come by.
Visual Basic at a certain point, Pascal, Java, C.
And you know what?
I've forgotten most of it.
So if this sounds intimidating, then please don't worry.
But yeah, nowadays Python plays a big role
in my professional career, also R, right?
And those two happen to be the most popular
programming languages for doing data science.
And JavaScript, obviously,
when you're doing some more front-end work.
- JavaScript finds its way into all these little cracks.
You're like, why JavaScript?
Come on, I was just looking at programmable dynamic DNS
as a service.
And the way you program it is you, I know,
and you jam in little bits of JavaScript
to make a decision on how to like route a DNS query.
I'm like, JavaScript.
- Oh yeah.
I'm now using Eleventy, which is a static site generator.
And ironically enough, it uses JavaScript.
- Yeah, sure.
- Yeah.
- That's fantastic.
- There are really good things about Eleventy
and I just started using Hugo,
which is also a static site generator,
but that one's written in Go.
And I just decided I care about writing in Markdown
and I want a static site and I don't care,
long as I run a command on the terminal.
Actually, I want to tell the story a little bit
about sort of coordinating over the shell
for some of these static site things.
But I decided I don't care if it's,
the guts of it are in the language that I can program,
it's a tool.
If it's a good tool for me, I'm gonna use it.
Okay, so that's how you got into programming.
How about day to day?
What are you doing these days?
- Yeah, so at this very moment, as we're recording this,
I have my own company called Data Science Workshops,
where I give training at companies to developers
and researchers and occasionally managers.
But I have decided to stop with that.
So in a couple of weeks, I'll actually join another company.
So in the past six years, I have...
We can talk about how that company came about and it's probably related to everything, of course.
But I just want to say that this is actually the very first time that I'm talking about this,
but I'm going to be a machine learning engineer.
So there are two reasons why I decided to stop with my own company.
First of all, I really miss working with people, working with colleagues.
And secondly, I miss building things.
So that's why I'm joining, well, January 1st, I'm joining Xomnia, a consultancy based in
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
Excellent.
- That sounds really fun.
I also run my own company and I really enjoy it,
but I completely get what you're saying.
Sometimes it's nice to be with a team.
And you also, it makes you learn different skills
or hone different skills to show up at a client company
where they've got a million requests an hour
trying to answer something which machine learning
versus doing some research and talking about
how to improve the shell, right?
These are two very different jobs.
And so it's cool to sort of mix up the career across those.
- Say again?
- It's great to mix up your career
and do some of both, right?
'Cause if all you did is work at a consultancy,
you'd be like, I can't wait to start my own company
and do something else.
- Right, right, right.
And you know, the company just happened.
That's actually thanks to the book that I wrote a long time ago.
Once it was done, the first edition, that is, in 2014,
and we're talking about Data Science at the command line here,
I was asked to give a workshop.
I'd never given a workshop before, but I was asked by a games company
in Barcelona to give a one-day workshop.
and I liked it and I liked it so much that I started doing this more often until I decided
to do this full time.
So I didn't choose the company life, the startup life, although you can't really think of it
as a startup.
But yeah, these things happen.
The independent life, that's right.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, cool.
All right.
All right, well, let's talk about the terminal.
People on Windows might notice the command prompt,
although you, as I, would also recommend
that people generally stay away from the command prompt
in at least for some of these tools,
but we do have the Windows terminal,
which is relatively new and much, much nicer,
much, much closer to the way--
- The PowerShell, you mean? - Yeah.
Well, there's the PowerShell,
but then there's also a new Windows Terminal application,
and then it can even do things like bash into Windows subsystem for Linux, right?
So if you wanted to use some of these tools,
you could fire up Windows subsystem for Linux,
and then you would literally have the same tool chain,
because it's just Ubuntu or something.
- Oh, right. Yeah, I mean, I'm familiar with WSL,
but I haven't tried out this new Windows Terminal.
- Yeah, the new Windows Terminal is pretty nice.
Well, let me see if I can pull it up for everybody,
Windows Terminal.
But yeah, it's just in the Windows 11
store, I guess you call it, I don't know.
But it's a lot closer to the other tools.
So if you're on Windows, you owe it to yourself
to not use cmd.exe, but get this instead.
So what I wanna talk about just real quickly
to set the stage is, I just went through a period of,
oh, my computer has been the same setup
for a couple of years, it's getting crufty,
I'm gonna just format it.
Not restore from some backup, but format it
and reset up everything so it's completely fresh
and like better, 'cause I really made some mistakes
when I first set it up, now it's better.
But I opened up the terminal and it's this tiny font,
dreadful white background with black text
and it has some old version of Bash.
And so I kind of wanted to get your thoughts on like,
what do you do to make your terminal better?
- Right.
- You probably do something,
you probably install some extras and other things
to make your experience on the terminal nicer.
- Yeah, so I'm guessing you're on macOS then?
- Yes, I am.
I do macOS and I do a Linux for the servers.
And I think some combination thereof
is pretty common for most of the listeners.
- So for macOS, the biggest gain you get
when you install iTerm.
So a different terminal, right?
The application that would launch your shell.
- macOS, yeah, the terminal emulator.
What do they call it?
The macOS terminal replacement.
There you go.
- Yeah, this is, I'd say the most popular one on macOS.
There are others, but yeah, that's what I start with.
You mentioned the shell, which is it still Bash?
Is that still the default one?
- Yeah, it's the Bash by default.
Yeah, yeah.
And I think it's an old version of Bash.
So yeah, there are other shells out there.
The Z-shell is quite popular,
largely compatible with Bash.
I've heard good things about Phish.
- Yes, Phish is good.
- Yeah, which actually,
it's not really POSIX compliant, as they say.
So it's quite different from what you might get
from Bash or the Z-shell.
But from what I've seen, the syntax, especially looping,
might appeal to the Python developer out there.
It's closer to Python, but I haven't tried it myself.
So--
- Also the conch shell, is that how you say it?
X-O-N dot, if you're willing to give up Cossix,
then this is like literally Python in the shell.
you can just type like import JSON and do a for loop.
- Yeah.
- I've never, I've not gone this far.
I'm still, I'm on the Z shell side of things.
I really like how that works,
but if you really wanted to embrace
the sort of Python in the shell.
- Exactly, it's this trade off of how far do you wanna go?
How much do you, do you wanna deviate
from what is then considered to be the default, right?
because you mentioned you also work a lot on servers.
>> Yeah.
>> There, you're then presented with a completely different shell,
perhaps, and set of tools.
It's a trade-off.
Also, how much time do you really want to spend customizing this?
Because our time is precious.
>> Yeah. William out in the audience says,
for the Windows people, OhMyPosh,
which have you done stuff with OhMyPosh?
That's is also really nice.
- So I guess Posh is for, oh no, any shell.
So not just the PowerShell.
- Yes, I think it came out of the PowerShell,
so the Posh part.
I think it originally was for that,
but I use this with Zshell and OhMyZSH together.
And it's basically that controls my prompt
and OhMyZshell is like all the plugins
and complete your Git branches type of thing.
- Yeah. - Yeah, this is really,
this is really pretty neat too.
- It is. - Works well for Windows people.
- I'd say then indeed, so if your terminal is one thing
where you can get a lot of benefit from
customizing your prompt so that it gives you
a little bit more information and context
of where you are or what your state,
in which state your Git repo is in
or in which virtual environment you're working,
that can be helpful too.
Because that is something that you lose easily
when you're working at the command line is context.
- Right, I ran this command and it's not working
because actually I forgot to activate
the virtual environment so it doesn't have the dependencies
or the environmental variables that I set up
in that virtual environment, right?
- Exactly.
- Let me give one more shout out for one other thing
while people are thinking about making their stuff better.
Is Nerd Fonts.
- Yeah, great.
I'm always eager to learn these things.
There is so much out there.
- So Nerd Fonts, if you're gonna get like Oh My Posh
and some of these other extensions
that you wanna make your shell better,
so many of them depend on having what are called Nerd Fonts.
Because if you look at say on the Oh My Posh page,
There's like these, these arrows with gaps in them.
You're like, what font could possibly have like a get branch symbol.
And as these like connecting arrows that have colors interwoven
and all that stuff is nerd fonts.
So if you're going to try to run them, you download and install one of these nerd
fonts, and then those will work.
Otherwise they're like those, I don't understand Unicode square blocks, you
know, like a, you know, mojis got that.
Individual fonts.
Yeah.
So it's kind of like you take consolata or something
or some other font and it's patched
with these additional characters.
- Yeah, something like that.
Yeah, so it does, you only need one,
but you have to set your terminal to one of these,
to make a choice, set it to one of them,
and then it'll work.
But if you don't, then you'll end up with just like these,
a lot of these extensions don't work.
So, yeah.
- Yeah.
>> Yeah, so when it comes to customizing your shell then,
if you still want to talk about that.
>> Yeah, let's keep going.
>> Right. One of the things I think everybody does most often is
navigating around moving from one directory to another.
It can be quite cumbersome to keep on
re-typing all these long and deeply nested directories.
So there are a number of solutions that can help with that.
I use FASD, F-A-S-D.
It keeps track of what you've been visiting most often,
and most recently.
And it also, I don't think if,
I wonder if that one also allows you to set bookmarks.
That's what I used to do.
I would keep, I would have this set of custom shells,
shells functions, which actually made,
made it into a plugin,
but nine years ago into OhMyZshell.
So if you, if you have OhMyZshell
and the jump plugin is still in there.
Yeah, that's a, yep, yep.
you can just jump around. I see.
>> You would say mark this directory under this alias.
Although it's not really an alias,
but it's like a bookmark.
Then you say, "Okay, jump to this directory."
So that really helps.
>> Right. So maybe the source directory for talk Python,
I would just mark it as TP and I could say on the terminal,
I could say jspace tp and it would take me
this super long complex directory,
just bam, you're there, right?
>> Exactly. I like it.
>> I might need to try this out.
It comes with MyZShell?
>> This one? No, this one it doesn't.
It's a separate tool, I believe.
Although it might even be a plug-in.
By now, I don't even know.
It's been a long time since I installed it,
but FASD, that's what you want to look for.
>> Okay. Very, very cool.
I have one that I use a lot called McFly.
Have you seen McFly?
- No.
- So it's similar.
And what you do is, you know, if you type control R
it'll give you reverse incremental search
or whatever that is.
- Yeah.
- So this overrides that.
So if you type control R, it brings up an Emax
like auto-complete type thing that has fuzzy searching.
So you could type SSH and then like part of a domain name
and it would find you typed SSH root@ some,
that domain name, and it'll give you a list
of like all these smart options
looking through your history.
- Yeah, so yeah, that's amazing.
And even now as we talk,
I've learned like a dozen new things.
One thing I have noticed though,
is that, you know, you may,
the next time you're installing,
you're setting up your system,
You may feel very productive and elite-like
when you're installing all these tools,
but you still gotta make use of them, right?
You gotta turn it into some kind of a habit.
And what I have noticed, for me at least,
what works best is to just take it one tool at a time,
make a little cheat sheet for yourself on a piece of paper,
and just see if you like that tool,
if you get any benefit from it.
>> Yeah, absolutely.
>> Related to this actually is the concept of aliases,
in a more generic sense,
in the pure shell sense,
in that you can define an alias that would then be
expanded into some command with zero or more arguments.
So if you have commands that you would often type,
like LS for listing your files,
and you have all these arguments that you don't want to keep on
typing then aliases is the way to go.
>> I go crazy with aliases.
I absolutely love this.
Yeah, I have probably 150 aliases in my RC file.
>> Oh, that's nice. Yeah, that's nice.
So at some point, what you may have done is go through your history and then see how often you use these aliases.
Yeah.
That's always a fun thing to do.
Yeah, for me, it's kind of frustration. I'm like, "Oh, I don't want to do this."
I've got to remember, I've got to type,
"Oh, no, I've got to go into this directory and then I've got to first type this command and then I can do this other thing."
So, for example, we talked about the static site generators.
So one of the things I have to do in order to
create new content and see how it looks in the browser
is I have to go to a certain directory,
not where the content is, but a couple up,
run Hugo-D server there,
and then it'll auto reload,
and as I edit the markdown, it'll just refresh.
So instead of always remembering how to find that directory
and then go into the right sort of parent directory
and run it, I just now just type Hugo right,
and that's an alias, and just, it does that.
Boom, it just pops open and it's running.
I do my thing.
Then I got to do a whole bunch of automation
in Python on top of it and then build it
and ship it to the Git
and push it for a continuous deployment.
Now I have just Hugo publish, boom.
And these are all like aliases.
The other thing you talked about a single commands
is maybe talk about chaining commands
and multiple commands.
- Yeah, because you just mentioned automation in Python.
And then I of course immediately go like,
Hmm, what's going on there?
Yeah, so I've got a couple of I guess their go commands 'cause
they're Hugo and then I've got some Python code that generates
a tag cloud and then a git command that will publish it. So
it's like, Hugo, Hugo, git, no, Hugo, git, Hugo, Python, Hugo,
git is that all in one alias, right? Which is is beautiful.
Yeah, it's beautiful. And that, you know, I don't know if we've
Exactly. I guess I opened a little bit talking about your book, but one of the really core ideas of your book is
That the shell can be the integration environment across technologies like go python and git
Exactly. Exactly the command line doesn't care in what language something has been written, right? It's it's like a
super glue or or duct tape more really
Uh that that binds everything together
- Yeah.
- To a certain extent, right?
Like duct tape.
- Yeah, well, it's, you know, loosely bound,
but it's, there's a ton of flexibility in there.
And if you think, well,
I really just want to do these four things,
maybe that would be a macro in Excel
or some kind of like scripting replay in Windows.
But this is,
it's on the terminal, programs can run it.
You can run it.
It's clearly editable.
It's not some weird specific type of macro.
You can just say ampersand, ampersand between them.
And it'll say run this first thing, then run the other.
Those are independent.
You can also pipe inputs and outputs between them, right?
I see that.
You've got some really interesting ways to do that multi-line stuff
in your book as well.
Yeah.
Well, yeah.
So it depends on what you're doing.
So if you're doing a multi-line,
you're doing a multi-line, you're doing a multi-line.
You're doing a multi-line.
So it depends on what kind of tools you want to combine.
So you just mentioned double ampersand.
So that should be used when you only
want to run the second command when the first one has
succeeded.
If you want to run the second one regardless
of what the first one did, you can just use a semicolon.
Or if you only want to run the second command when
first one failed, there might be a situation where you want to do that, you can use double
pipe.
Okay.
Yeah.
Interesting.
Okay.
And then you just mentioned piping.
And that's, well, a whole other story.
That's when you want to use the output from the first command as input to the second command.
This is where data, again, comes into play.
You just also mentioned macros.
Another way to think of them are functions
that you then combine.
Yes, incredibly powerful.
But that goes a little bit beyond...
then, of course, you should be working with commands
that produce some text that you want to then further work on.
Yeah. You also talk about creating Bash scripts,
which is pretty interesting. I think many people probably know about that,
or shell scripts, .sh files, I guess it could be ZShell scripts as well.
Yeah.
So you gave an interesting presentation back at the Strata Conference,
And it's, you had a lot of fun ideas
that I think are relevant here.
So maybe let me just throw out some one-liners
and you could maybe riff on that a little bit, okay?
- Yeah, yeah, sure.
- So one of the reasons you said,
you gave 50 reasons that the shell was awesome.
And I want to just point out a couple,
highlight a couple, let you speak to them.
So you said the shell is like a REPL
that lets you just play with your data.
We know the REPL from Python and also from Jupyter.
but I never really thought of the shell as a REPL,
but it kind of is, right?
- Yeah, I think that the shell is the mother of all REPLs,
the read eval print loop, right?
Having this short feedback loop of doing things
and seeing output and then elaborating on that.
I think that is tremendously valuable
And Python users, of course, may recognize this from Python itself.
If you just execute Python, you get a REPL, IPython or Jupyter console,
and to a certain extent, also Jupyter Notebook or JupyterLab.
There are some similarities there where you, again, have this quick feedback loop,
and it's a very different experience from writing a script from top to bottom,
or starting at the top, and then executing that script
from the start every time you want to test something.
So, yeah, it's a different way of working,
and I'm not saying one is better than the other,
but what I do want to say is that there are situations
where having such a tight feedback loop
can be very efficient.
Yeah, especially in the exploration stage, right?
right? Yeah, exactly. Once you go to production, right? Once you, whatever that means, right?
Once you want things to be a bit more stable, you don't want to just use duct tape, but you want to
use a proper construction. Then, yeah, then of course the command line can have different roles
there. Yeah. Yeah, but it's kind of the the rad GUI, the rapid application development GUI, but
for data exploration, right? These REPLs, you know, that's probably why Jupyter is so popular.
It just lets you play and see and then try and it just that quick feedback loop is amazing.
Another reason, you said it's awesome, close to the file system.
Yeah, I mean, in the end, it's all files, right? Whether you're producing code that lives somewhere,
in a file, or whether you're working with images or log files that get written to something,
or you have some configuration that's... it's all files.
And we got to do things with these files.
We have to move them around, we have to rename them, delete them, put them into Git.
So you want to be close to your file system.
don't want to be importing a whole bunch of
libraries before you can start doing things with these files.
>> Also, when you're doing data science,
often it starts with this ingest and understanding files,
CSV or text or others.
>> Yeah. I sometimes try to immediately do read CSV in Pandas,
But then, very often,
I get presented, I get some Unicode error,
or it turns out the comma is not the limiter being used.
Yeah, you can do that in a trial and error way,
you can fix that, but it really helps just being able to look at
a file as it is, no parsing, just boom,
There's my file.
Then yep, once you're comfortable,
once you're confident like,
okay, this is what my file looks like,
this is its structure,
then of course, you can always move on to
using some other package like pandas.
>> Another one that you've said,
another recommendation you had or
a way for playing with this was to use Docker.
I don't know how many people out there
who haven't done this for are really familiar.
But basically, when you start up a Docker image,
you might say dash it bash or zsh.
And what you get is just you get a basic shell inside the Docker container.
But in that space, then you can kind of go crazy and do whatever you want to the shell and try it out, right?
Exactly. Yeah. So there are two scenarios that I can think of.
So when you're just starting out with the command line,
it's a very intimidating environment,
and it's quite easy to wreck your system if you're not careful.
So being inside an isolated environment
that is sort of shielded off your host operating system
can be comforting.
So that's one recommendation that I would say
that why I think you should use Docker.
And the other one is reproducibility.
Also in Python, we're dealing with packages that get updated,
that get different version numbers, where APIs change.
And being able to reproduce a certain environment
so that you get consistent results is also very valuable.
- Yeah, and I'd like to sort of highlight
the converse as well.
You said playing with Docker containers
is a cool way to experiment with the shell.
If you care about Docker containers,
you need to know the shell to do things to it.
'Cause you might think,
"Oh, I'm just going to make a Docker file.
I don't need to know the shell."
Like what goes in the Docker file?
A whole bunch of commands that many of them look like
exactly what you would run on the shell,
you just put it in a certain location
or as a command argument
to some configuration thing in there.
And so you really,
if you're gonna do things with containers,
the way you speak to them is mostly
through shell-like commands, right?
- Yeah, yeah, right, yeah.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
- Let's see.
Oh, so one of the cool tools that you had
in that presentation was,
you talked about explain shell.com.
Yeah.
What is this?
Well, it, yeah, you can, you can try out.
So, so what you see here on the screen is, is explain shell.com and it will
break down a long command and, start explaining.
Um, so it will, it will, what I think the authors, have done is, they
have used all these manual pages and extracted bits and pieces that they then present to
you in an order that corresponds to the command that you're pasting into this.
So if you see on Stack Overflow, you see this incantation and you're like, "All right, what
does it mean?"
And you don't want to go through the manual page yourself.
Right? Okay. So what does dash F mean?
And what is this X, Z, V, F for the tar command mean?
Right? Then explain shell can do this trick for you.
It's a.
- Yeah. It's amazing.
When I first thought, I thought, okay, well,
what this is going to be is this is going to be like
the man page.
If you type LS, it'll show you a simple list directory
content and you click on it,
it'll give you additional arguments you can pass.
But you could then say, like you said, you could say -l
and it'll say the ls means list contents.
The l means use the long listing format.
And like, oh, okay, hold on.
What if I said, get checkout main
and it'll say, okay, well, get checkout does this.
And then main, it'll actually parse it apart.
And there's some really wild examples on here
that like right on the page that are highlighted
on the homepage of that site.
you click it and boom, it gives you this cool graph
of like what the heck, it even shows like the ampersand,
the double ampersand and the double or combining
as you mentioned before.
- Yeah. - This is amazing.
- It is, it's really useful, especially when you're just,
you know, getting started with the command line
and you're overwhelmed like we all are in the beginning
and sometimes still are, then, you know,
adding some context like this really helps.
I once wrote a utility that allowed you to use explain shell.com from the command line.
So you would just, you wouldn't leave the command line. I don't think it works any longer,
but yeah, that was a fun exercise. >> Yeah. Oh yeah. Very neat. One of the things that I learned
was parallel. >> Oh yeah.
>> Tell us about parallel.
This is a command you can run on the terminal.
It sounds like it does stuff in parallel. That sounds amazing.
>> Yeah. Like the name implies.
Parallel is a tool and we're talking about GNU Parallel here.
There's another version out there that is similar but different.
Gnu Parallel is this tool that doesn't do anything by itself,
but it's a force multiplier for all the other tools.
What this tool is able to do, it will parallelize your pipeline.
It will be able to run jobs on multiple cores,
and even distribute them to other machines if you have those available.
Michael, you mentioned you're working on a server.
Well, if you can SSH into other servers as well,
you can leverage those.
That's something that Blue Parallel can do.
The way it works is that you feed it a list of something.
Could be a list of file names,
could be a list of URLs,
could be your log files.
If you can then think of the problem that you want to solve,
if you can break it down into smaller chunks,
then GNU Parallel might be able to help you out there.
These jobs should be working independently from each other.
There can be, it's nearly impossible to
have those two jobs communicate with each other.
But let's say you have for your blog,
in Hugo, you have a whole bunch of
ping files that you want to convert to JPEGs.
>> Web view or something, yeah, sure.
>> Yeah. It's a bad example because
this particular tool that I would then use
already supports doing multiple files,
but let's just assume that
this tool can only handle one file at a time.
Yeah, then you would specify your command, right?
And then at certain places where necessary use placeholders.
Like, so, okay, this is where the file name goes
and this is where the file name goes with a new extension.
So it's one of my favorite tools, really.
- Yeah, that's fantastic.
So for example, if you had a bunch of web pages
and you wanted to compute the sentiment analysis, right?
As a data scientist, right?
You want to download it, compute the sentiment analysis,
and then save that to a CSV or pin it to a CSV.
Maybe somebody gave you that script,
and it's only written to talk to one thing,
and you don't want to rewrite it or touch it or get involved
with it.
This is your way to unlock the parallels on there, right?
Yeah.
In fact, let's talk a little bit more about this,
because I think this is an important point in that, I
mean, I'm sure that we've all come across when we're
working in Python and you're thinking like, okay, I can speed this up.
I want to do things in parallel. You know what?
I'm going to do multi-threading or what is it that you use these days in
Python?
Yeah. Async and await. Maybe if it's IO bound or something like that.
You've got your pool of workers or I don't know. Basically you're,
you're programming it yourself from the ground up.
Right. Multi-processing potentially might be the closest.
Right. Right. Right. Right. So, so,
The trick then is to realize that there is already a tool out there that can do that for you.
All that you need to do is make sure that your Python code becomes a command line tool.
And we can talk a little bit more about that, but there are just five, six steps needed to make that happen.
And once you realize that,
then you can start turning existing Python code into command line tools
and start combining it with all the other tools that are already available,
including Parallel.
Yeah.
It's awesome. I think it's a really cool idea because
maybe the person working with the code doesn't understand
multiprocessing and thread synchronization and all these tricky concepts.
Just give me a thing that does it once with command line arguments and I got it.
You know, like, or you picked it up from somewhere.
Out in the audience, the question is, is there a gil associated with this?
And I mean, technically, yes, but it's not interfering with the computation
because it's multiple processes.
It's not threads within a process, right?
So it should be able to just run and take advantage of all your cores.
- Yeah.
There will be one gil per Python process, right?
- Yep, that's right.
- Right, and so it doesn't matter
because if you say there's five jobs,
you have five processes, right?
There's no contention there.
- Yep.
- Yeah, absolutely.
All right.
Oh, so yeah, let's talk a little bit about this idea
of turning Python scripts into command line tools.
- Yeah.
- I think that that's really valuable for people.
- It is, and I think we can then put it in the show notes.
I might have already given a talk about this.
I'm actually not sure if it's publicly available.
Anyway, there are only a couple of steps, and it's not that difficult.
So, first of all, let's assume that you have some Python code out there.
You have it in a file, and let's just, for simplicity's sake,
assume it's a single file.
So what would you then need to do to turn this into a command line tool?
something that can be run on the command line.
The way that you can currently run this is by saying,
okay, Python and then the name of the file.
That doesn't really sound like it's a command line tool.
The very first thing here then is to add one line at
the very top that would then start with a hash and an exclamation mark,
or a hash bang, or a shebang as it's called.
These are two special characters and they
instruct the shell that this can be executed.
>> What is the binary that's going to?
>> Exactly. That's what then would come after that.
You would have hash bang,
and then it would point to the Python executable.
There's some details there.
>> It could be a certain version,
It could be out of a virtual environment potential,
and it could go wherever, right?
Don't want to overcomplicate it probably,
but you could point to different versions of Python.
You could point--
because you give it a full path that's executable.
Exactly, exactly.
There's some compatibility issues there.
But essentially, you tell your shell, OK,
which program should interpret my code.
and that is some Python out there that you have installed.
So that's the first step.
Then after you've done this,
you no longer need to type Python anymore
because the file itself contains
which executable should be run.
But then you'll notice that you don't have
the necessary permissions.
What you need to do is you need to enable the execution bit.
Yeah, so this would give you as the user permission to actually execute this file.
You do that, of course, with a command line tool.
It's called chmod, C-H-M-O-D, for change mode.
And then U+X, the name of the file, right?
These details are, if you're really interested,
one place where you can find them is in chapter four
of my book, Data Science at the Command Line, which you can read for free.
Okay, but let's say that you've enabled the execution bit, now you can run it.
You would still need to type a period and a slash,
because this file is presumably not yet on your search path.
So your search path is a list of directories
where your shell will be looking for the executable that you want to run.
Where is your tool located?
well, should be somewhere on the search path.
So either you add another path to the search path
or you move the tool
to one of the existing directories out there.
That's about it for making your code executable,
but then you probably want to change one or two things
about the code itself.
Yeah, so I would,
one thing to do is look for any hard-coded values that you actually want to be, want to make dynamic, right?
These should be turned into command line arguments.
And actually, you can take that one step further.
If you have, if one portion of your file is doing something that can be done by another command line tool,
then consider removing that.
For example, downloading a file.
Yeah, there's of course a tool for that on the command line.
Why would you then write this yourself?
Of course, there's a time and a place for that.
But let's say, okay, a very contrived example is a Python program that would count words.
Yeah, right.
If your code has some hard coded website, yeah, I mean, why?
it would be, you would make your tool more generic
by getting rid of that hard-coded URL
and well, turn it into a command line argument.
Okay, which website would you like to download?
Or to go one step further is to think,
okay, you know what?
I don't really care where the text is coming from.
I just want to count words.
So-
- Give me text somehow.
- Yeah. - Sorry?
- Just give me the text.
Don't tell me the URL.
>> Your tool should then be reading from standard input,
which is a special channel from which you can receive data.
This is also where the piping would come in.
You would first use a tool that would get this text,
maybe it's some log file,
so you want to count your errors or it's another website,
and you want to do stuff to that.
It doesn't really matter, but you would then,
that would write to its standard output.
Yeah.
And you would combine the standard output
from the first tool with your standard input
using the pipe operator.
So that's, that's basically it for, I mean, of course,
if you want to take this further, you can think about,
you know, adding some help, some nice looking help.
Think about the arguments themselves,
You want to use short options or long options.
>> Exactly.
>> Something like Typer or Click or one of
these formal CLI frameworks.
>> Yeah. Python, of course, has R parse.
But there are packages out there
that can really help you build beautiful command line tools.
Typer is one of them. I'm currently using Click.
Also, Click in combination with Rich.
So, of course, the author of Rich was on the show a couple of episodes ago.
Yeah, Will McGugan. Very good stuff.
While we're talking about that, you know, the other thing that's really pretty interesting is the Rich CLI.
Have you played with Rich CLI?
which, oh, yeah, okay.
So that's indeed a command line tool in itself
that can do a whole bunch of things.
Yeah, you wanna tell us something about that?
- You know, I haven't done much with it,
but you can do things like, if you install the rich CLI,
then you can say things, there's lots of ways to install it.
You could say like rich and then a Python file
or a JavaScript file or a JSON file,
and it'll give you pretty printed color,
you know, syntax highlighted print out,
you can say, rich some CSV file,
and it will give you a formatted table
inside your terminal with colors and everything
of it understands markdown and like renders markdown.
And there's all sorts.
So if you're kind of exploring files
and you're happy with Python things
and like installing the rich CLI
is a pretty neat way to go as well.
- Yeah, it's a nifty tool, but just not to get confused.
This tool is provided by Rich and it uses Rich to produce nice looking output.
But just imagine that you can write your own command line tools that would also produce
this nice looking output and for that you can then use this package called Rich.
In combination perhaps with things like Typer or Click.
And DocOpt is another way you can go.
There are so many tools out there.
- Yeah, there absolutely are.
One other thing I would like to point out that,
so there's taking the script and making it executable
and put it in the path.
That's kind of a, it's a great way to take scripts
that you have and make them CLI commands for you.
If you want to like formalize this a little bit more,
I recently ran across this project called
the Twitter Archive Parser.
And I don't know if you've noticed,
but there's a lot of turmoil at Twitter.
And so what you can do is you go to Twitter
and download your entire history
of like thousands of tweets or whatever
as a HTML file and some JSON files
and you can save them for yourself.
But the content of like all of the links
are the shortened to.co Twitter short links.
And if Twitter were to go away,
you'd have no idea what any of your links
you've ever mentioned ever were.
And also the images that you get are the low res images
and you can get the high res images
if you know how to download them.
So this guy, Tim Hutton, created this really cool utility
that you can take that downloaded archive
and upgrade it to standalone with high res images
and full resolved links, not shortened links.
Pretty cool, right?
But if you look at the way to, like, how do you use it?
Okay, where does it say this?
Not sure where it is.
Yeah, so how do I use it?
I download my Twitter archive and unzip it fine.
And then I download the Python file
to the working directory.
And then I go in there and I type Python that file.
Wouldn't it be better if I could just,
you know, it has dependencies it has to install
in order for it to run.
Wouldn't it be better if I could just use this as a command?
So what I did is I forked this and I said,
I'm gonna add a pyproject.toml
to turn this into a package.
And then, under the pyproject.toml,
you say project.scripts,
Twitter archive markdown, Twitter archive images,
and you map into your package
and then in functions that you wanna call.
And then once you pip install this,
these commands become just CLI commands.
And it doesn't matter how that happened,
long as your Python packages are in the path,
which they generally have to be anyway,
'cause you wanna do things like pytest and black,
then if you just pip install this project,
it adopts all these commands here, which is pretty cool.
- Nice.
Is it then necessary to add this bin directory once
to your search path?
Because it lives somewhere on their site packages, right?
- Yes, exactly.
And so if you have a Python installation
and you try to pip install something,
you'll get a warning that the site packages
are not in the path.
So you do have to do that.
And then go one further, you could do pipx.
I don't know if you played with pipx.
pipx is awesome.
So it'll generate the package environments
and install the dependencies in an isolated environment.
And it'll set up the path if you just say, intrapath.
Then so if you pipx install the thing
with the commands in it,
those automatically get managed and upgraded by pipx
as just part of your CLI,
which like that's a perfect chain of like a four,
but you've got to have a formal package
and like a place to install it from like Git or PyPI
or whatever, but it's still like a neat
pro level type of thing, I think.
- Yeah, yeah, you can take this pretty far,
make it really professional.
And before you know it, you start maintaining it for.
- Exactly.
When am I doing PRs on this silly thing?
I don't know.
- Yeah, but just to clarify,
if you say for a one-off or a two-off,
you want to make something that is reproducible,
so a reusable command line tool,
not reproducible, reusable,
you don't really need any other packages.
You can just use sys.argv.
You import sys and then you have your sys.argv.
- I do that a fair amount of times.
It's only for me, I've created an alias,
So it always gets the right argument.
There's like, there's no ambiguity.
It's just Rv bracket one, let's go.
- Exactly, yep.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, for sure.
All right, so we've talked a lot about,
sort of around all the cool things we can do
with the command line, but in your book,
you actually talked about a bunch of surprising tools.
So like, one of the things you talked about
is obtaining data and you hinted at this before,
like you can just use curl.
for downloading those kinds of things.
But if you get a little bit farther,
like under scrubbing data,
you talk about grep and awk that a lot of people maybe know.
But then if we go a tad further over to say,
exploring data, then all of a sudden,
you can type things like head of some CSV file
and it kind of does the same thing as Jupyter.
Or there's things like CSV cut and SQL, CSV, CSV, SQL.
Talk about some of these maybe more direct data science tools
that people can use.
- Right, so let's see then where to begin.
What you just mentioned,
so you mentioned a couple of tools, right?
the head and awk and grep, those are,
I would consider them the classic command line tools, right?
Part of core utils, GNU core utils, right?
You can, if you have a fresh install,
then you can expect those tools to be present.
Yeah, if you're not on Windows.
So those tools, they operate on text, on plain text,
and they have no notion of any other structure
that might be present in this data,
say CSV for when you have some rectangular structure
or JSON when you can have
a potentially deeply nested data structure.
These tools know nothing about that.
That doesn't make them entirely useless, right?
There are ways to work around them,
around that issue.
But there are nowadays plenty of tools available
that are able to work with this structure.
And one of them is actually a suite of tools.
It's called CSV kit.
And you can install it as a Python package
through pip, which of course we do at the command line.
And then you have-
- CSV kit, you say?
- Yeah, exactly.
Uh-huh.
And then you get a whole bunch of tools that understand that, you know, lines are rows.
The first line is a header, and all these fields are delimited by default by a comma.
And then you can do things like extract columns or sort a file according to a certain column.
Yeah, so this is more difficult for when you're working with the core data utils.
And of course, all of these things you can do in pandas, and it might even be faster
in pandas, as opposed to these CSV tools, not as opposed to the classic command line
tools.
But I mean, in order to get started with pandas, right, just imagine that you're given this
file by your colleague, and you're asked to quickly sum things together.
In order to just get started with pandas, what are then the things that you need to
do?
Fire up JupyterLab, import pandas, maybe a bunch of other things.
There is, of course, also a time and a place for that.
Definitely.
I always use the tool that gets the job done, don't get me wrong here.
But it's just so incredibly powerful if it solves the job to just whip up a command on the command line
using a couple of tools there.
If you're going that route, then CSV Kit is not the only suite of tools that you should know about.
XSV written in Rust.
But yeah, you shouldn't care about that because the command line doesn't care.
Yeah, but it's generally faster.
One thing that CSV kit can do, by the way,
and I'm actually kind of proud that I have been able to contribute
that tool to the suite of tools,
is CSV SQL, and it allows you to
run a SQL query directly on the CSV file.
So if you are familiar with SQL,
then you can leverage that knowledge directly at
the command line without first having to create
a new database and import that CSV file in there and so forth.
>> One of the things you can do on the command line is basically,
just give it, like here's a SQLite file database,
and now go insert all the things from the CSV file into it.
Here in this example, it has this create table statement.
Does it figure that out from the CSV
or do you need to write that?
- It figures it out.
Yeah, it does some, it looks at the first,
say a thousand rows and then figure out like,
okay, this is a number, this is a text.
- Yeah, cool.
But I was actually talking about the other tool,
and that's SQL2 CSV.
I always mix those up.
- The reverse, yeah.
- Yes, exactly, this one.
And there, it still uses SQLite under the hood,
but you don't need to worry about that.
It takes care of all that boilerplate for you.
You just say, okay,
select these columns from standard input,
order them by this column and this is the file
or I've piped.
- Yeah, that's cool.
- Yeah, yeah.
So, yep, yeah, it's pretty cool.
- Yeah, I mean, maybe you've got like some production
database and you wanna filter out,
I just need this table with this particular query, right?
It's like, I only wanna focus on my region of this data,
give it to me as a CSV file.
then you can go work on it all you want.
You don't have to be connected to the database or near it
or any of those things, right?
Potentially, if it doesn't have any sensitive data,
you could share that, right?
You would never share the connection string
to your database.
That'd be insane.
- Yep.
Yeah.
Exactly.
- Okay.
Very cool.
So what are some of the other tools?
Well, if we go back, if I go back to the CSV kit,
You can see there's some of these you talked about,
there's into CSV, that one takes an Excel,
XSL or XSLX and converts it to a CSV
just on the command prompt or the terminal, right?
- Yep, yeah.
Also, I should point out that I'm not the author
of CSV kit, right?
I just contributed a very small portion to it
because of the ingredients that were already there.
Still proud of it though, but it's being created
by many other people.
- Sure, of course.
Some other things it has is like CSV stat and CSV rep.
Yeah, a lot of cool command line options
to point at these things, right?
Let's see, I pulled out some others.
Let's see here.
Rush.
So one of the areas that,
the graph, basically plotting,
we're basically out of time,
but I wanna talk about two things really quick.
Some of this, which chapter did you put under
where you have the pictures?
- Seven.
So visualizing, exploring data, and then it's--
- Yeah, here we go.
- So if you, so tell us a little bit about this.
Like you can plot stuff in your terminal.
- Yeah, yeah, it's kind of crazy.
And you know what?
I should say that Rush is a proof of concept, right?
It's one of those projects that have a lot of potential,
but don't necessarily have enough users.
And I don't necessarily have enough time
to maintain it properly,
but it does prove the concept.
So, Rush, the name, I mean, it's for when you're in a rush,
it's R on the shell.
And what it does, it leverages R under the hood.
And for plotting, it leverages a particular R package,
ggplot2, which is the data visualization package
for when you're working with R.
- Yeah, kind of the sibling,
where Matplotlib is a little bit derived from that,
I believe, right?
- Well, well, well, now you're mentioning that.
Actually, Matplotlib is very different.
Matplotlib is very low level
and gives you a lot of flexibility,
but also requires a lot of work.
Now, if you wanna visualize data in Python
in a similar way that ggplot uses,
then I can recommend PlotMine.
So that's a Python package that is modeled
after ggplot2's API.
But that was a little segue there.
Now, somebody else created a backend for ggplot
that allows you to create visualizations
on the command line, what I then did was create this interface.
So something that would translate arguments
and their values to the appropriate function call,
and also does a lot of boilerplate
when it comes to reading in the CSV file that you provide.
If you were to do this in R itself,
it would require, let's say, about five lines of code
in order to get started, right?
And the same holds for Python, right?
So similar concept, right?
Import the appropriate packages or modules,
reading in some file, and there's all this setup.
And you know, again, that is probably what you want
when you want things to be a little bit more robust,
but when you wanna get stuff done quickly,
really helps to be able to do that as a one-liner
on a command line.
And this is where Rush would then come in.
So I make use of all this, yeah,
elaborate machinery, you know, in R,
just to use that at the command line.
- So like a beautiful little wrapper
around this complex thing.
- It is really a wrapper.
- Hide the complexity, right?
- Exactly, exactly.
- Yeah, so you can do beautiful like bar plots.
There's a lot of neat stuff in here.
I really like this.
- It is really nice.
And yeah, now that I see this again,
I get excited again.
There is definitely potential there,
but you know, it's again, yet another open source project
that has to be maintained.
And unfortunately, my time is limited like everybody else's.
- Yeah, of course, of course.
All right, the last thing we have time for
is this polyglot data science.
Tell us a little bit about this.
- Yeah, so polyglot data science is the idea
that in order to get things done,
you might need to use multiple tools,
multiple languages, really.
And throughout the book, so up until then,
up until that chapter,
we have mainly been focusing on using other languages
from the command line,
but this chapter considers the other way around, right?
Using the command line from another language.
So there might've been a situation
where you're working in Python,
And then all of a sudden, like, oh, now I
got to do this regular expression,
or I got to do some globbing, or I
have to call this other tool that is not written in Python
but can be called from the command line.
Maybe use subprocess, the subprocess module for that.
These are situations where you want
to leverage the command line, where you want to break out
of Python and do parts of your computation on a command line.
And in that chapter, chapter 10, I demonstrate this not only
for Python itself, but also in other languages and tools,
including JupyterLab, where you can pass around, say,
a variable as standard input and also retrieve the output then
so that you can continue working in Python again
with the output.
So, and what is still very interesting to me
is that even new languages and tools
somehow still offer a way to leverage the command line.
So Spark, Apache Spark has a pipe method
where you can pass an entire dataset, right?
RDD through a command line tool.
And I think that is just,
maybe it was just a fun little hack,
what the authors did, I don't know.
I tried to view it as a compliment,
like, okay, sometimes we just need to go back to the basics
and use the command line, because once you're there,
you're back in this environment
where you can use everything else.
- Everything we've spoken about so far
is now accessible as a command,
be it Go or Python or your own script or whatever.
- Exactly, so let's say you've written this,
you've come across this really nice tool,
but it's written in Ruby.
Oh no, what are you gonna do?
Are you gonna all of a sudden become involved into Ruby?
No, assuming that this tool can be used
from the command line, you can of course relax,
just use the sub process module and still you incorporate
that Ruby tool into your own script.
That's the idea.
- Yeah, I do wanna maybe point out just really quickly here.
Like this has got a little bit of a little Bobby Tables
warning asterisk by it, you know.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- Right, so for example, one of the things that's awesome
here is I could run Jupyter console as you show.
And then if you say exclamation mark command,
that pumps it straight to the shell.
So you could say, bang date,
and it would tell you the date.
You could have a bang pip install dash dash upgrade request,
and that'll go and execute that command.
Don't do that with user input, right?
'Cause who knows what they're gonna send you.
You can also do that within Jupyter Notebooks,
you point out, right?
So you can do, what is it, percent percent bash,
and then some interesting complicated thing there, right?
- Yeah, yeah, that's indeed the magic command
that you can use in Jupyter notebook.
- Right, and then--
- To interpret the entire cell as bash.
- Yeah, and so then you take what's left of that
and then you head over to explain shell
and figure out what the heck it means.
(laughing)
- Yeah, maybe do that before you run it, yeah.
- Yeah, that's a good idea.
And then also in Python,
using subprocess is something that I've done several times,
I need to automate generating some big import
of say 150 video files across a bunch of directories
to build a course that we're going to offer.
Well, and to the database I have to put
how long is each one of those?
I have no idea how to get the duration out of an MP4
or MOV file, but you know what?
There's a really cool command line program I can run
and it'll tell me.
So I just use subprocess and call that,
and then I can script out the rest in Python.
And subprocess is not to be underestimated, I think.
- Yeah, yeah, exactly.
No, it makes a lot of sense.
I mean, at a certain point, shell scripts
can get a little bit too hairy to work with.
Being able to automate your things
and use Python as your super glue, right?
So a little bit stronger than duct tape,
I think makes a lot of sense.
- Yeah, we talked at the beginning about how
you're in this exploration stage
and you just wanna just run a bunch of stuff
on the command line and figure it out.
But when you go to production and you said,
whatever that means, like this could be one of,
one thing that it means.
We're gonna write formal Python code
and then use subprocess to kind of bring in
some of this functionality potentially.
- Yeah, exactly.
I mean, the command line is by definition,
very ad hoc, right?
- Yeah. - In nature.
still, if you're doing things in production,
meaning you're interacting with other environments, with servers,
or you have some kind of continuous integration going on,
there are these places, these are places where the command line keeps popping up.
Yeah.
So even there, it is useful to at least be comfortable
with this stark and unforgiving environment.
I think it's really excellent. I think there's a lot of cool stuff that we talked about. I think there's a lot of
a lot of value for people to learn this. I guess, you know, maybe we close this out with just one comment that I remember from your Strata presentation. You said the command line is like
wine. Maybe it takes a while to appreciate, but it gets better with age. And I certainly, my first experience was like, okay, I'm going to go from Windows and Mac Dev
development over to setting up and running servers over SSH.
It was like, I am beyond lost.
I have no idea even like just how to get started, right?
Many years ago.
And now it's like, well, of course that's a beautiful way.
And it just, you slowly build up these skills
and it's really lovely.
- Yeah, it is.
No, it took me a long time to get comfortable
with the command line actually,
or Linux in a more generic sense.
I, for the longest time I was running Windows
and Linux in a dual boot machine.
And so I just couldn't make the jump.
And this was over 10 years ago,
but no, it definitely didn't come overnight
and I wasn't born with it.
So, but I also believe that everybody, you know,
is able to embrace the command line, if you will.
But you just gotta, you know,
make yourself a little bit comfortable there as well.
We talked about that in the beginning, right?
the right terminal, the right aliases
can get you a long way.
- They get you so far and tools like OMYZ Shell
and some of these others,
the fast that will help you remember
the thing you needed to type or like you said,
aliases and kind of bring it all together.
Like, I know I did that thing.
Let me just do a quick search for,
yeah, there it is.
Five weeks ago I ran this and this is how I,
this is how I restart the web server.
Oh yeah, now I remember.
- Yeah, yeah.
I can talk about this all night.
>> I think we're probably out of time though.
Let me ask you the final two questions
before you get out of here.
If you're going to do some editing or write some code,
what editor do you choose these days?
>> I am torn between Visual Studio Code,
Doom Emacs, and NeoVim.
But wherever I am in these editors,
I always have my Vim key bindings set up.
So it kind of depends on the project.
But yeah, as long as I have my Vim key bindings, I'm happy.
- Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
And then notable,
normally I ask notable PyPI project or library,
but maybe broaden a little bit.
Like if you could recommend one tool,
one library people could install
for the command prompt of the shell, what would you say?
- One tool or one command line tool
for that they could install on the shell.
- Just something, it doesn't have to be the most popular.
Something like people, if I ran across this,
It was delightful.
People should know about X.
- Yeah.
Canoe parallel, let's do it.
Let's, yeah, we talked about it.
So it doesn't require any further explanation.
It's the tool that, you know,
makes every other tool way cooler.
So yeah, if you have that one in your arsenal,
you can become very powerful.
- Good recommendation.
All right, well, final call to action.
People are excited about this.
They want to learn more about it.
What do you tell them?
- Yeah, a couple of things they can do.
So my book, "Data Science at the Command Line"
is freely available.
Yeah, so the second edition came out a year ago.
You can read it for free on datascience@commandline.com.
I also offer a cohort-based course
that I do twice a year.
The next cohort is coming up in April,
and this is, yeah, there, we have six live sessions,
and then I will, I help a group of researchers
and developers embracing the command line.
It's a very different experience than reading a book.
If you want to know more about that, then also
data science@commandline.com has a link to that.
Apart from that, yeah, I mean, if you just
follow Hacker News, you'll come across--
now that you're aware of all these tools,
you'll come across quite a lot of tools every now and then.
There's not a week in which there's not
a tool being mentioned.
There are tools being developed every day.
Even though it's, you know,
the technology is over 50 years old,
it's impossible to keep up, but--
- It's only getting cooler.
- Say again?
- It is only getting cooler.
Definitely.
So yeah, that's my recommendation there.
- All right, fantastic.
Well, thanks for being here.
It's been great.
Congrats on the book and putting all this together.
Yeah, thank you very much for having me.
- Yeah, you bet, bye.
- Bye-bye.
[BLANK_AUDIO]